
I have quite a bit of trouble with this last milestone and the artifact behind it. I chose to use the code from one of my previous classes here at SNHU. Since the class was quite a while ago, I had lost access to the virtual machine that already had the environment set up for this artifact. It’s a database visualization project for an animal shelter that rehabilitates and trains animals for different tasks such as water rescue. It uses MongoDB which is like most other non-relational NoSQL database management programs. There is a Python driver called pymongo that allows for python scripts to handle the CRUD (create, read, update, delete) operations. The actual data visualization tool used was Jupyter Dashboards using the Plotly extension. Which is where I ran into my issues. I had to download and configure Mongodb on my personal machine to be able to hold and call the aac_shelter_outcomes.csv. I tried using the online tool Mongodb Atlas at first, but it had a steep learning curve and had many of its features locked off. I ended up creating a virtual machine to host the Mongodb server and imported the .csv file to there. Then I was unable to get the Jupyter Dashboards to work correctly at first, so I ended up downloading and using Jupyter Labs which was another issue due to so much misinformation. It was also a frustrating task trying to get the Jupyter Labs Notebook to be able to communicate with the MongoDB database on the VM because of security issues. On my road to getting a working database environment I found that some of the tools that were used by Jupyter Dashboards for the class didn’t have great options to add extra CRUD functionality within the graphs themselves, so I had found another way to show that I am more proficient in handling databases. I saw that the user was searching using certain fields that were assigned to each animal in the dataset, so I figured that the pop up that happens once a user hovers over the marker on the geo location chart didn’t really need to repeat those three already displayed fields. I thought it would be nice if there could be a picture of each animal appear while hover over their marker. I handled this by using the hoverdata tooltip built into the Plotly extension. It allowed me to add the ability to display a jpeg when a user hovers over the marker. I had to use the base64 encoder/decoder built in. This is because the dataset for being saved as a .csv file which is only able to handle text data. For this project I was able to import an image to make this happen and with more time I would be able to add fields to the dataset that allowed for references to a file folder which would hold a picture for each animal. The bulk of my inline code changes were around the geolocation chart code at the very bottom of my Jupyter dash code. I was able to turn the project around and set up something that would be equally useful and enjoyable to a user search this database.
