
While I love everything to do with the inner workings of technology and software, I have certainly encountered challenges with software development. I have a great grasp on the concepts of everything involved with all the software and hardware that I have worked with but when it comes to getting into the weeds of code, I find myself lost more often than not. I do not know if that is just because it hasn’t “hit” me yet or because I lack understanding of it. I have realized that even with that short-coming I still make a great engineer. I have the ability to think like an engineer and to step back and troubleshoot any and all problems that arise in my work. That is one of the lessons I’ve learned during my time here at SNHU. Which I think makes me more valuable as an employee. Any task that I am given gets completed even if I must use unorthodox methods. My ability to examine and breakdown issues makes me incredibly useful in my profession. I have been trying to work on being better within the software development area as a whole but until I get there, I have a few things that I do to try and keep track. In all my code I try as often as I can to comment and explain my code. If you look at my Teddy Bear game, you would be able to see how clear and concise my classes are as well as how they are separated and compartmentalized. I tried to do it this way because I wanted to make sure that my code and thus the game itself was scalable and reusable. If someone were to look at my game and wanted to add a few things here or there such as different game states or different enemies then it wouldn’t require much if any at all reworking of the original code. The new features and functions could just be created in their own classes and then added to the game1.cs without much issue. By having to revisit this code and reflect upon it during the creation of this portfolio I realized how flawed much of my code was and how unfinished I tend to leave projects that I start on my own and that have no clear “complete by” date. After reflecting on this I have worked on that flaw and have been consistently working to improve not just my knowledge but my drive to finish all projects that I have started. My love for Computer Science and Software development grows with each line of code that I write. I understand and see my flaws and have a way forward on fixing them. My professional experience may be more about building systems and creating patches along with hardening them using cyber security best practices, but I tend to always reach for more and more development assignments. As you look through my portfolio on GitHub, I would like you to try to put yourself into the shoes of a small developer who is ready to turn any project into a passion project.

